# Gated Mixer

> A mixer service with improved compliance and accountability hooks

For this project I chose path A and decided to dive deeper into implentation details and cryptography.
I basically had to write everything from scratch. I built my own ZK circuits on NOIR and integrated them with Solidity code.
I also built the webapp demo using React/Typescript and connected it to my contract.

## Project Overview

This project tries to improve upon Tornado Cash which had glaring compliance issues, which led to it being sanctioned

1. In Tornado Cash anybody could deposit, including illicit funds which led to money laundering and other illegal activity

1. Tornado Cash provided pure anonymity, but with no compliance

How Gated Mixer improves upon Tornado Cash:

1. Introducing the allowlist, only trusted users whose identity is known can deposit
1. Compliance/Accountability hook - Gated Mixer will have an admin
1. One-time allowance, after you deposit, you are removed from the allowlist
1. Admins control all the future access and can stop issuing allowances

## How it works

### How to deposit?

Users will need to register on Gated Mixer website and reveal their identity in the process only to the website admins.
In order for them to be able to deposit, they will have to request allowance from the admins of the website.

1. User generates alSecret and alNullifier, hashes them using Poseidon hash function to get alCommitment
1. User only shares alCommitment with admin who adds it to contract’s Merkle Tree(Only Admin can do this)
1. Now user is allowed to deposit as long as they remember alSecret and alNullifier. User can pick ANY account to deposit.

> Security Concern: Can you be frontrun and your allowance stolen?

No, user generates ZK proof from alSecret and alNulifier and binds their address to the ZK proof, so frontrunner can not just copy and paste your ZK and steal allowance, their ZK request will fail and revert.

To deposit you need to generate depSecret and depNullifier and send depCommitment to the contract which is Poseidon(depSecret, depNullifier)

After using ZK proof to deposit, nullifierHash is saved in contract and your allowance is revoked(one-time allowance property)

### How to withdraw?

1. Pick any other account you have.
1. You need to use depSecret and depNullifier to build ZK proof. You need to bind your another account address to the ZK proof. Prevents frontrunning and stealing your funds by copying ZK proof.
1. nullifierHash is saved on the contract and you can not withdraw again.

## Threat Model/What can go wrong?

1. You might accidentally link your accounts together. Do NOT send funds to your fresh accounts from your main account to cover gas fees. RELAYERS would solve this problem.
1. What happens if admin gives allowance to 3 people: Alice, Bob and Even and one of them does something illegal?

GatedMixer only provides entry level compliance, once allowance is given even admin can not track how that allowance was used. Admins can’t suspend already deposited funds or prevent withdrawal.

However, admins can suspend issuing new allowances and admins can provide authorities with what they know(time windows and actual identities of suspects), narrow it down using off-chain data.

So in the end, using Gated Mixer for illegal activity considerably raises risks that the user will be caught.

## Implementation Details

1. webapp - This directory contains webapp demo
1. mixer - Contains Solidity code for the contract among with a lot of tests
1. allowance_zk_proof - This is ZK proof circuit that is responsible for allowlist system
1. membership_zk_proof - ZK proof system responsible for deposit/withdrawal
1. hash1_circuit, commitment_circuit - are helper circuits that are used in webapp to generate Poseidon hashes.

The circuits are implemented on NOIR.

> Note: Files in webapp/src/shadcn are part of shadcn/ui library and NOT my code.

> Note: Files in webapp/src/circuits and mixer/src/verifiers are generated by the NOIR compiler

I used the following versions of libraries for my project:

1. @aztec/bb.js 5.0.0-nightly.20260522
1. @noir-lang/noir_js 1.0.0-beta.22

## Usage

### Run the tests for mixer

```bash
cd mixer
make test
```

### Run the tests for zk proofs

```bash
cd membership_zk_proof
make test
```

### Run demo

Run anvil separately

```bash
anvil
```

Deply the contract to anvil

```bash
cd mixer
make deploy KEY=0xac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80
```

Run the webapp demo

```bash
cd webapp
npm run dev
```
